doc/source/contributor/contributing.rst, before:

============================
So You Want to Contribute...
============================

For general information on contributing to OpenStack, please check out the
`contributor guide <https://docs.openstack.org/contributors/>`_ to get started.
It covers all the basics that are common to all OpenStack projects: the accounts
you need, the basics of interacting with our Gerrit review system, how we
communicate as a community, etc.

Below will cover the more project specific information you need to get started
with OpenStack-Ansible.

Communication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

IRC channel
^^^^^^^^^^^

The OpenStack-Ansible community communicates in the #openstack-ansible IRC
channel hosted on freenode. This channel is logged, and its logs are published
on http://eavesdrop.openstack.org/irclogs/%23openstack-ansible/.

Weekly meetings are held in our IRC channel. The schedule and
logs can be found on
http://eavesdrop.openstack.org/#OpenStack_Ansible_Deployment_Meeting.
The agenda for the next meeting can be found on our
`Meetings wiki page <https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Meetings/openstack-ansible>`_.

Mailing lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Members of the OpenStack-Ansible community should monitor the
**OpenStack-discuss** `mailing lists`_.

.. _mailing lists: http://lists.openstack.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo

All our communications should be prefixed with **[openstack-ansible]**.

Contacting the Core Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All of our core team is available through IRC and present in #openstack-ansible
channel on Freenode. The list of the current members of the OpenStack-Ansible Team
might be found on `gerrit`_.

.. _gerrit: https://review.opendev.org/#/admin/groups/490,members


New Feature Planning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you would like to contribute towards a role to introduce an OpenStack
or infrastructure service, or to improve an existing role, the
OpenStack-Ansible project would welcome that contribution and your assistance
in maintaining it.

Please look through :dev_docs:`Contributor Guidelines <contributor/contribute.html>`
page for more information about the process.


Task Tracking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We track our tasks in Launchpad

   https://bugs.launchpad.net/openstack-ansible


If you're looking for some smaller, easier work item to pick up and get started
on, search for the 'low-hanging-fruit' tag.


Reporting a Bug
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You found an issue and want to make sure we are aware of it? You can do so on
`Launchpad
<https://bugs.launchpad.net/openstack-ansible>`_.


Also you may find more detailed information about how to work with bugs
on the page :dev_docs:`Bug Handling <contributor/bugs.html>`


Getting Your Patch Merged
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any new code will be reviewed before merging into our repositories and
requires at least 2 approvals from our Core team.

We follow openstack guidelines for the `code reviewing <https://docs.openstack.org/project-team-guide/review-the-openstack-way.html>`_ process.

Please be aware that any patch can be refused by the community if they
don't match the :ref:`codeguidelines`.


Project Team Lead Duties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All common PTL duties are enumerated in the `PTL guide
<https://docs.openstack.org/project-team-guide/ptl.html>`_.

All Core reviewer duties are described on the page
:dev_docs:`Core Reviewers <contributor/core-reviewers.html>`.

Commit message:

Update contributors guide to reflect IRC network change
Change-Id: I7a3d3d7cfff0a9bfc0e751a5a797d26f7411d480
Ref: https://etherpad.opendev.org/p/openstack-irc

doc/source/contributor/contributing.rst, after:

============================
So You Want to Contribute...
============================

For general information on contributing to OpenStack, please check out the
`contributor guide <https://docs.openstack.org/contributors/>`_ to get started.
It covers all the basics that are common to all OpenStack projects: the accounts
you need, the basics of interacting with our Gerrit review system, how we
communicate as a community, etc.

Below will cover the more project specific information you need to get started
with OpenStack-Ansible.

Communication
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

IRC channel
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. warning::

   The OpenStack Community will be moving the IRC network from Freenode to OFTC on May 31,
   2021. All the current IRC channels used in The OpenStack community are registered in OFTC
   network too. More details on how to use OFTC on various platform are coming
   soon.

The OpenStack-Ansible community communicates in the #openstack-ansible IRC
channel hosted on OFTC. This channel is logged, and its logs are published
on http://eavesdrop.openstack.org/irclogs/%23openstack-ansible/.

Weekly meetings are held in our IRC channel. The schedule and
logs can be found on
http://eavesdrop.openstack.org/#OpenStack_Ansible_Deployment_Meeting.
The agenda for the next meeting can be found on our
`Meetings wiki page <https://wiki.openstack.org/wiki/Meetings/openstack-ansible>`_.

Mailing lists
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Members of the OpenStack-Ansible community should monitor the
**OpenStack-discuss** `mailing lists`_.

.. _mailing lists: http://lists.openstack.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo

All our communications should be prefixed with **[openstack-ansible]**.

Contacting the Core Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All of our core team is available through IRC and present in #openstack-ansible
channel on Freenode. The list of the current members of the OpenStack-Ansible Team
might be found on `gerrit`_.

.. _gerrit: https://review.opendev.org/#/admin/groups/490,members


New Feature Planning
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you would like to contribute towards a role to introduce an OpenStack
or infrastructure service, or to improve an existing role, the
OpenStack-Ansible project would welcome that contribution and your assistance
in maintaining it.

Please look through :dev_docs:`Contributor Guidelines <contributor/contribute.html>`
page for more information about the process.


Task Tracking
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We track our tasks in Launchpad

   https://bugs.launchpad.net/openstack-ansible


If you're looking for some smaller, easier work item to pick up and get started
on, search for the 'low-hanging-fruit' tag.


Reporting a Bug
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You found an issue and want to make sure we are aware of it? You can do so on
`Launchpad
<https://bugs.launchpad.net/openstack-ansible>`_.


Also you may find more detailed information about how to work with bugs
on the page :dev_docs:`Bug Handling <contributor/bugs.html>`


Getting Your Patch Merged
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any new code will be reviewed before merging into our repositories and
requires at least 2 approvals from our Core team.

We follow openstack guidelines for the `code reviewing <https://docs.openstack.org/project-team-guide/review-the-openstack-way.html>`_ process.

Please be aware that any patch can be refused by the community if they
don't match the :ref:`codeguidelines`.


Project Team Lead Duties
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All common PTL duties are enumerated in the `PTL guide
<https://docs.openstack.org/project-team-guide/ptl.html>`_.

All Core reviewer duties are described on the page
:dev_docs:`Core Reviewers <contributor/core-reviewers.html>`.
