deploy-guide/source/app-aboutosa.rst, before:

.. _app-aboutosa:

=======================
About OpenStack-Ansible
=======================

OpenStack-Ansible (OSA) uses the `Ansible <https://www.ansible.com/how-ansible-works>`_
IT automation engine to deploy an OpenStack environment on Ubuntu, Debian
and CentOS.

For isolation and ease of maintenance, you can install OpenStack components
into machine containers.

The OpenStack-Ansible manifesto
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All the design considerations (the container architecture, the ability to
override any code, the network considerations, etc.) of this project are
listed in our :dev_docs:`architecture reference <reference/architecture/index.html>`.

Why choose OpenStack-Ansible?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Supports the major Linux distributions Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian.
* Supports the major CPU architectures x86, ppc64, s390x (WIP).
* Offers automation for upgrades between major OpenStack releases.
* Uses OpenStack defaults for each of the project roles, and provides
  extra wiring and optimised configuration when combining projects
  together.
* Does not implement its own DSL, and uses wherever possible Ansible
  directly. All the experience acquired using Ansible can be used in
  openstack-ansible, and the other way around.
* You like to use reliable, proven technology. We try to run OpenStack
  with a minimum amount of packages that are not provided by distributions
  or the OpenStack community. Less dependencies and distribution tested
  software make the project more reliable.
* You want to be able to select how to deploy on your hardware: deploy
  partially on metal, fully on metal, or fully in machine containers.

When **not** to choose OpenStack-Ansible?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* If your company is already invested with other configuration management
  systems, Puppet or Chef, and does not want to use Ansible we recommend
  re-using your knowledge and experimenting with a different
  OpenStack deployment project.
* You want to deploy OpenStack with 100% application containers.
  We currently support machine containers, with lxc and we will support
  *systemd-nspawn* in the future (WIP). If you want to go 100% Docker,
  there are other projects in the OpenStack community that can
  help you.

Commit message:

Update deploy guide to reflect the current status of OSA
Change-Id: I381980d89d4d08ab0081a4fa0d02986bdf0fb1d3

deploy-guide/source/app-aboutosa.rst, after:

.. _app-aboutosa:

=======================
About OpenStack-Ansible
=======================

OpenStack-Ansible (OSA) uses the `Ansible <https://www.ansible.com/how-ansible-works>`_
IT automation engine to deploy an OpenStack environment on Ubuntu, Debian
and CentOS.

For isolation and ease of maintenance, all OpenStack services are installed by
default from source code into python virtual environments.

The services are further isolated via the use of LXC containers, but these are
optional and a bare metal based installation is also possible.

The OpenStack-Ansible manifesto
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All the design considerations (the container architecture, the ability to
override any code, the network considerations, etc.) of this project are
listed in our :dev_docs:`architecture reference <reference/architecture/index.html>`.

Why choose OpenStack-Ansible?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Supports the major Linux distributions Ubuntu, CentOS, Debian.
* Offers automation for upgrades between major OpenStack releases.
* Uses OpenStack defaults for each of the project roles, and provides
  extra wiring and optimised configuration when combining projects
  together.
* Does not implement its own DSL, and uses wherever possible Ansible
  directly. All the experience acquired using Ansible can be used in
  openstack-ansible, and the other way around.
* You like to use reliable, proven technology. We try to run OpenStack
  with a minimum amount of packages that are not provided by distributions
  or the OpenStack community. Less dependencies and distribution tested
  software make the project more reliable.
* You want to be able to select how to deploy on your hardware: deploy
  partially on metal, fully on metal, or fully in machine containers.

When **not** to choose OpenStack-Ansible?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* If your company is already invested with other configuration management
  systems, Puppet or Chef, and does not want to use Ansible we recommend
  re-using your knowledge and experimenting with a different
  OpenStack deployment project.
* You want to deploy OpenStack with 100% application containers.
  We currently support LXC containers, if you want to go 100% Docker,
  there are other projects in the OpenStack community that can
  help you.
* You want to deploy OpenStack services from distribution packages
  (deb or rpm). Whilst there is some support for this, coverage of the
  services is incomplete and a lot of operator flexibility is lost
  when using this approach.
