doc/source/admin/scale-environment.rst, before:

========================
Scaling your environment
========================

This is a draft environment scaling page for the proposed OpenStack-Ansible
operations guide.

Add a new infrastructure host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While three infrastructure hosts are recommended, if further hosts are
needed in an environment, it is possible to create additional nodes.

.. warning::

   Make sure you back up your current OpenStack environment
   before adding any new nodes. See :ref:`backup-restore` for more
   information.

#. Add the node to the ``infra_hosts`` stanza of the
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml``

   .. code:: console

      infra_hosts:
      [...]
        infra<node-ID>:
          ip: 10.17.136.32

#. Change to playbook folder on the deployment host.

   .. code:: console

      # cd /opt/openstack-ansible

#. To prepare new hosts and deploy containers on them run ``setup-hosts.yml``
   playbook with the ``limit`` argument.

   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_hosts --limit localhost,infra<node-ID>,infra<node-ID>-host_containers

#. In case you're relying on ``/etc/hosts`` content, you should also update it for all hosts

   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.openstack_hosts_setup -e openstack_hosts_group=all --tags openstack_hosts-file

#. Next we need to expand Galera/RabbitMQ clusters, which is done during
   ``setup-infrastructure.yml``. So we will run this playbook without limits.

   .. warning::

     Make sure that containers from new infra host *does not* appear in inventory
     as first one for groups ``galera_all``, ``rabbitmq_all`` and ``repo_all``.
     You can varify that with ad-hoc commands:

     .. code:: console

       # ansible -m debug -a "var=groups['galera_all'][0]" localhost
       # ansible -m debug -a "var=groups['rabbitmq_all'][0]" localhost
       # ansible -m debug -a "var=groups['repo_all'][0]" localhost


   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_infrastructure -e galera_force_bootstrap=true

#. Once infrastructure playboks are done, it's turn of OpenStack services to be
   deployed. Most of the services are fine to be ran with limits, but some,
   like keystone, are not. So we run keystone playbook separately from all others:

   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.keystone
      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_openstack --limit '!keystone_all',localhost,infra<node-ID>,infra<node-ID>-host_containers


Test new infra nodes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After creating a new infra node, test that the node runs correctly by
launching a new instance. Ensure that the new node can respond to
a networking connection test through the :command:`ping` command.
Log in to your monitoring system, and verify that the monitors
return a green signal for the new node.

.. _add-compute-host:

Add a compute host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the following procedure to add a compute host to an operational
cluster.

#. Configure the host as a target host. See the
   :deploy_guide:`target hosts configuration section <targethosts.html>`
   of the deploy guide.
   for more information.

#. Edit the ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml`` file and
   add the host to the ``compute_hosts`` stanza.

   If necessary, also modify the ``used_ips`` stanza.

#. If the cluster is utilizing Telemetry/Metering (ceilometer),
   edit the ``/etc/openstack_deploy/conf.d/ceilometer.yml`` file and add the
   host to the ``metering-compute_hosts`` stanza.

#. Run the following commands to add the host. Replace
   ``NEW_HOST_NAME`` with the name of the new host.

   .. code-block:: shell-session

       # cd /opt/openstack-ansible/playbooks
       # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_hosts --limit localhost,NEW_HOST_NAME
       # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.openstack_hosts_setup -e openstack_hosts_group=nova_compute --tags openstack_hosts-file
       # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_openstack --limit localhost,NEW_HOST_NAME

   Alternatively you can try using new compute nodes deployment script
   ``/opt/openstack-ansible/scripts/add-compute.sh``.

   You can provide this script with extra tasks that will be executed
   before or right after OpenStack-Ansible roles. To do so you should
   set environment variables ``PRE_OSA_TASKS`` or ``POST_OSA_TASKS``
   with plays to run devided with semicolon:

   .. code-block:: shell-session

      # export POST_OSA_TASKS="/opt/custom/setup.yml --limit HOST_NAME;/opt/custom/tasks.yml --tags deploy"
      # /opt/openstack-ansible/scripts/add-compute.sh HOST_NAME,HOST_NAME_2


Test new compute nodes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After creating a new node, test that the node runs correctly by
launching an instance on the new node.

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ openstack server create --image IMAGE --flavor m1.tiny \
  --key-name KEY --availability-zone ZONE:HOST:NODE \
  --nic net-id=UUID SERVER

Ensure that the new instance can respond to a networking connection
test through the :command:`ping` command. Log in to your monitoring
system, and verify that the monitors return a green signal for the
new node.

Remove a compute host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `OpenStack-Ansible Operator Tooling <https://opendev.org/openstack/openstack-ansible-ops>`_
repository contains a playbook for removing a compute host from an
OpenStack-Ansible environment.
To remove a compute host, follow the below procedure.

.. note::

   This guide describes how to remove a compute node from an OpenStack-Ansible
   environment completely. Perform these steps with caution, as the compute node will no
   longer be in service after the steps have been completed. This guide assumes
   that all data and instances have been properly migrated.

#. Disable all OpenStack services running on the compute node.
   This can include, but is not limited to, the ``nova-compute`` service
   and the neutron agent service.

   .. note::

     Ensure this step is performed first

   .. code-block:: console

     # Run these commands on the compute node to be removed
     # systemctl stop nova-compute
     # systemctl stop neutron-openvswitch-agent

#. Clone the ``openstack-ansible-ops`` repository to your deployment host:

   .. code-block:: console

     $ git clone https://opendev.org/openstack/openstack-ansible-ops \
       /opt/openstack-ansible-ops

#. Run the ``remove_compute_node.yml`` Ansible playbook with the
   ``host_to_be_removed`` user variable set:

   .. code-block:: console

     $ cd /opt/openstack-ansible-ops/ansible_tools/playbooks
     openstack-ansible remove_compute_node.yml \
     -e host_to_be_removed="<name-of-compute-host>"

#. After the playbook completes, remove the compute node from the
   OpenStack-Ansible configuration file in
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml``.

Recover a compute host failure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following procedure addresses Compute node failure if shared storage
is used.

.. note::

   If shared storage is not used, data can be copied from the
   ``/var/lib/nova/instances`` directory on the failed Compute node
   ``${FAILED_NODE}`` to another node ``${RECEIVING_NODE}``\ before
   performing the following procedure. Please note this method is
   not supported.

#. Re-launch all instances on the failed node.

#. Invoke the MySQL command line tool

#. Generate a list of instance UUIDs hosted on the failed node:

   .. code::

      mysql> select uuid from instances where host = '${FAILED_NODE}' and deleted = 0;

#. Set instances on the failed node to be hosted on a different node:

   .. code::

      mysql> update instances set host ='${RECEIVING_NODE}' where host = '${FAILED_NODE}' \
      and deleted = 0;

#. Reboot each instance on the failed node listed in the previous query
   to regenerate the XML files:

   .. code::

      # nova reboot —hard $INSTANCE_UUID

#. Find the volumes to check the instance has successfully booted and is
   at the login:

   .. code::

      mysql> select nova.instances.uuid as instance_uuid, cinder.volumes.id \
      as voume_uuid, cinder.volumes.status, cinder.volumes.attach_status, \
      cinder.volumes.mountpoint, cinder.volumes,display_name from \
      cinder.volumes inner join nova.instances on cinder.volumes.instance_uuid=nova.instances.uuid \
      where nova.instances.host = '${FAILED_NODE}';

#. If rows are found, detach and re-attach the volumes using the values
   listed in the previous query:

   .. code::

      # nova volume-detach $INSTANCE_UUID $VOLUME_UUID && \
      # nova volume-attach $INSTANCE_UUID $VOLUME_UUID $VOLUME_MOUNTPOINT


#. Rebuild or replace the failed node as described in add-compute-host_.

Replacing failed hardware
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is essential to plan and know how to replace failed hardware in your cluster
without compromising your cloud environment.

Consider the following to help establish a hardware replacement plan:

- What type of node am I replacing hardware on?
- Can the hardware replacement be done without the host going down? For
  example, a single disk in a RAID-10.
- If the host DOES have to be brought down for the hardware replacement, how
  should the resources on that host be handled?

If you have a Compute (nova) host that has a disk failure on a
RAID-10, you can swap the failed disk without powering the host down. On the
other hand, if the RAM has failed, you would have to power the host down.
Having a plan in place for how you will manage these types of events is a vital
part of maintaining your OpenStack environment.

For a Compute host, shut down the instance on the host before
it goes down. For a Block Storage (cinder) host using non-redundant storage,
shut down any instances with volumes attached that require that mount point.
Unmount the drive within your operating system and re-mount the drive once the
Block Storage host is back online.

Shutting down the Compute host
------------------------------

If a Compute host needs to be shut down:

#. Disable the ``nova-compute`` binary:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova service-disable --reason "Hardware replacement" HOSTNAME nova-compute

#. List all running instances on the Compute host:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova list --all-t --host <compute_name> | awk '/ACTIVE/ {print $2}' > \
      /home/user/running_instances && for i in `cat /home/user/running_instances`; do nova stop $i ; done

#. Use SSH to connect to the Compute host.

#. Confirm all instances are down:

   .. code-block:: console

      # virsh list --all

#. Shut down the Compute host:

   .. code-block:: console

      # shutdown -h now

#. Once the Compute host comes back online, confirm everything is in
   working order and start the instances on the host. For example:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances
      # do nova start $instance
        done

#. Enable the ``nova-compute`` service in the environment:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova service-enable HOSTNAME nova-compute

Shutting down the Block Storage host
------------------------------------

If a LVM backed Block Storage host needs to be shut down:

#. Disable the ``cinder-volume`` service:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cinder service-list --host CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND
      # cinder service-disable CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND \
      cinder-volume --reason 'RAM maintenance'

#. List all instances with Block Storage volumes attached:

   .. code-block:: console

      # mariadb cinder -BNe 'select instance_uuid from volumes where deleted=0 '\
      'and host like "%<cinder host>%"' | tee /home/user/running_instances

#. Shut down the instances:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova stop

#. Verify the instances are shutdown:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova show | fgrep vm_state

#. Shut down the Block Storage host:

   .. code-block:: console

      # shutdown -h now

#. Replace the failed hardware and validate the new hardware is functioning.

#. Enable the ``cinder-volume`` service:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cinder service-enable CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND cinder-volume

#. Verify the services on the host are reconnected to the environment:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cinder service-list --host CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND

#. Start your instances and confirm all of the instances are started:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova start
      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova show | fgrep vm_state

Destroying Containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. To destroy a container, execute the following:

  .. code-block:: console

     # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.containers_lxc_destroy --limit localhost,<container name|container group>

  .. note::

     You will be asked two questions:

       Are you sure you want to destroy the LXC containers?
       Are you sure you want to destroy the LXC container data?

       The first will just remove the container but leave the data in the bind mounts and logs.
       The second will remove the data in the bind mounts and logs too.

.. warning::
   If you remove the containers and data for the entire galera_server container group you
   will lose all your databases! Also, if you destroy the first container in many host groups
   you will lose other important items like certificates, keys, etc. Be sure that you
   understand what you're doing when using this tool.

#. To create the containers again, execute the following:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cd /opt/openstack-ansible/playbooks
      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.containers_lxc_create --limit localhost,lxc_hosts,<container name|container
        group>

   The lxc_hosts host group must be included as the playbook and roles executed require the
   use of facts from the hosts.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   scaling-swift

Commit message:

docs: update environment scaling page
1. Fixing grammar and punctuation issues.
2. Correcting formatting of console information for proper display.

Change-Id: Iaf5e7863bada326603428d36b92f2fceaabed306

doc/source/admin/scale-environment.rst, after:

========================
Scaling your environment
========================

This is a draft environment scaling page for the proposed OpenStack-Ansible
operations guide.

Add a new infrastructure host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

While three infrastructure hosts are recommended, if further hosts are
needed in an environment, it is possible to create additional nodes.

.. warning::

   Make sure you back up your current OpenStack environment
   before adding any new nodes. See :ref:`backup-restore` for more
   information.

#. Add the node to the ``infra_hosts`` stanza of the
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml``:

   .. code:: console

      infra_hosts:
      [...]
        infra<node-ID>:
          ip: 10.17.136.32

#. Change to playbook folder on the deployment host:

   .. code:: console

      # cd /opt/openstack-ansible

#. To prepare new hosts and deploy containers on them run ``setup-hosts.yml``:
   playbook with the ``limit`` argument.

   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_hosts --limit localhost,infra<node-ID>,infra<node-ID>-host_containers

#. In case you're relying on ``/etc/hosts`` content, you should also update it for all hosts:

   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.openstack_hosts_setup -e openstack_hosts_group=all --tags openstack_hosts-file

#. Next we need to expand Galera/RabbitMQ clusters, which is done during
   ``setup-infrastructure.yml``. So we will run this playbook without limits:

   .. warning::

     Make sure that containers from new infra host *does not* appear in inventory
     as first one for groups ``galera_all``, ``rabbitmq_all`` and ``repo_all``.
     You can verify that with ad-hoc commands:

     .. code:: console

       # ansible -m debug -a "var=groups['galera_all'][0]" localhost
       # ansible -m debug -a "var=groups['rabbitmq_all'][0]" localhost
       # ansible -m debug -a "var=groups['repo_all'][0]" localhost


   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_infrastructure -e galera_force_bootstrap=true

#. Once infrastructure playboks are done, it's turn of OpenStack services to be
   deployed. Most of the services are fine to be ran with limits, but some,
   like keystone, are not. So we run keystone playbook separately from all others:

   .. code:: console

      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.keystone
      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_openstack --limit '!keystone_all',localhost,infra<node-ID>,infra<node-ID>-host_containers


Test new infra nodes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After creating a new infra node, test that the node runs correctly by
launching a new instance. Ensure that the new node can respond to
a networking connection test through the :command:`ping` command.
Log in to your monitoring system, and verify that the monitors
return a green signal for the new node.

.. _add-compute-host:

Add a compute host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the following procedure to add a compute host to an operational
cluster.

#. Configure the host as a target host. See the
   :deploy_guide:`target hosts configuration section <targethosts.html>`
   of the deploy guide for more information.

#. Edit the ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml`` file and
   add the host to the ``compute_hosts`` stanza.

   If necessary, also modify the ``used_ips`` stanza.

#. If the cluster is utilizing Telemetry/Metering (ceilometer),
   edit the ``/etc/openstack_deploy/conf.d/ceilometer.yml`` file and add the
   host to the ``metering-compute_hosts`` stanza.

#. Run the following commands to add the host. Replace
   ``NEW_HOST_NAME`` with the name of the new host.

   .. code-block:: shell-session

       # cd /opt/openstack-ansible/playbooks
       # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_hosts --limit localhost,NEW_HOST_NAME
       # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.openstack_hosts_setup -e openstack_hosts_group=nova_compute --tags openstack_hosts-file
       # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.setup_openstack --limit localhost,NEW_HOST_NAME

   Alternatively you can try using new compute nodes deployment script
   ``/opt/openstack-ansible/scripts/add-compute.sh``.

   You can provide this script with extra tasks that will be executed
   before or right after OpenStack-Ansible roles. To do so you should
   set environment variables ``PRE_OSA_TASKS`` or ``POST_OSA_TASKS``
   with plays to run devided with semicolon:

   .. code-block:: shell-session

      # export POST_OSA_TASKS="/opt/custom/setup.yml --limit HOST_NAME;/opt/custom/tasks.yml --tags deploy"
      # /opt/openstack-ansible/scripts/add-compute.sh HOST_NAME,HOST_NAME_2


Test new compute nodes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After creating a new node, test that the node runs correctly by
launching an instance on the new node:

.. code-block:: shell-session

  $ openstack server create --image IMAGE --flavor m1.tiny \
  --key-name KEY --availability-zone ZONE:HOST:NODE \
  --nic net-id=UUID SERVER

Ensure that the new instance can respond to a networking connection
test through the :command:`ping` command. Log in to your monitoring
system, and verify that the monitors return a green signal for the
new node.

Remove a compute host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The `OpenStack-Ansible Operator Tooling <https://opendev.org/openstack/openstack-ansible-ops>`_
repository contains a playbook for removing a compute host from an
OpenStack-Ansible environment.
To remove a compute host, follow the below procedure.

.. note::

   This guide describes how to remove a compute node from an OpenStack-Ansible
   environment completely. Perform these steps with caution, as the compute node will no
   longer be in service after the steps have been completed. This guide assumes
   that all data and instances have been properly migrated.

#. Disable all OpenStack services running on the compute node.
   This can include, but is not limited to, the ``nova-compute`` service
   and the neutron agent service:

   .. note::

     Ensure this step is performed first.

   .. code-block:: console

     # Run these commands on the compute node to be removed
     # systemctl stop nova-compute
     # systemctl stop neutron-openvswitch-agent

#. Clone the ``openstack-ansible-ops`` repository to your deployment host:

   .. code-block:: console

     $ git clone https://opendev.org/openstack/openstack-ansible-ops \
       /opt/openstack-ansible-ops

#. Run the ``remove_compute_node.yml`` Ansible playbook with the
   ``host_to_be_removed`` user variable set:

   .. code-block:: console

     $ cd /opt/openstack-ansible-ops/ansible_tools/playbooks
     openstack-ansible remove_compute_node.yml \
     -e host_to_be_removed="<name-of-compute-host>"

#. After the playbook completes, remove the compute node from the
   OpenStack-Ansible configuration file in
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml``.

Recover a compute host failure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following procedure addresses Compute node failure if shared storage
is used.

.. note::

   If shared storage is not used, data can be copied from the
   ``/var/lib/nova/instances`` directory on the failed Compute node
   ``${FAILED_NODE}`` to another node ``${RECEIVING_NODE}``\ before
   performing the following procedure. Please note this method is
   not supported.

#. Re-launch all instances on the failed node.

#. Invoke the MariaDB command line tool.

#. Generate a list of instance UUIDs hosted on the failed node:

   .. code-block:: console

      mysql> select uuid from instances where host = '${FAILED_NODE}' and deleted = 0;

#. Set instances on the failed node to be hosted on a different node:

   .. code-block:: console

      mysql> update instances set host ='${RECEIVING_NODE}' where host = '${FAILED_NODE}' \
      and deleted = 0;

#. Reboot each instance on the failed node listed in the previous query
   to regenerate the XML files:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova reboot —hard $INSTANCE_UUID

#. Find the volumes to check the instance has successfully booted and is
   at the login:

   .. code-block:: console

      mysql> select nova.instances.uuid as instance_uuid, cinder.volumes.id \
      as voume_uuid, cinder.volumes.status, cinder.volumes.attach_status, \
      cinder.volumes.mountpoint, cinder.volumes,display_name from \
      cinder.volumes inner join nova.instances on cinder.volumes.instance_uuid=nova.instances.uuid \
      where nova.instances.host = '${FAILED_NODE}';

#. If rows are found, detach and re-attach the volumes using the values
   listed in the previous query:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova volume-detach $INSTANCE_UUID $VOLUME_UUID && \
      # nova volume-attach $INSTANCE_UUID $VOLUME_UUID $VOLUME_MOUNTPOINT


#. Rebuild or replace the failed node as described in add-compute-host_.

Replacing failed hardware
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is essential to plan and know how to replace failed hardware in your cluster
without compromising your cloud environment.

Consider the following to help establish a hardware replacement plan:

- What type of node am I replacing hardware on?
- Can the hardware replacement be done without the host going down? For
  example, a single disk in a RAID-10.
- If the host DOES have to be brought down for the hardware replacement, how
  should the resources on that host be handled?

If you have a Compute (nova) host that has a disk failure on a
RAID-10, you can swap the failed disk without powering the host down. On the
other hand, if the RAM has failed, you would have to power the host down.
Having a plan in place for how you will manage these types of events is a vital
part of maintaining your OpenStack environment.

For a Compute host, shut down the instance on the host before
it goes down. For a Block Storage (cinder) host using non-redundant storage,
shut down any instances with volumes attached that require that mount point.
Unmount the drive within your operating system and re-mount the drive once the
Block Storage host is back online.

Shutting down the Compute host
------------------------------

If a Compute host needs to be shut down:

#. Disable the ``nova-compute`` binary:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova service-disable --reason "Hardware replacement" HOSTNAME nova-compute

#. List all running instances on the Compute host:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova list --all-t --host <compute_name> | awk '/ACTIVE/ {print $2}' > \
      /home/user/running_instances && for i in `cat /home/user/running_instances`; do nova stop $i ; done

#. Use SSH to connect to the Compute host.

#. Confirm all instances are down:

   .. code-block:: console

      # virsh list --all

#. Shut down the Compute host:

   .. code-block:: console

      # shutdown -h now

#. Once the Compute host comes back online, confirm everything is in
   working order and start the instances on the host. For example:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances
      # do nova start $instance
        done

#. Enable the ``nova-compute`` service in the environment:

   .. code-block:: console

      # nova service-enable HOSTNAME nova-compute

Shutting down the Block Storage host
------------------------------------

If a LVM backed Block Storage host needs to be shut down:

#. Disable the ``cinder-volume`` service:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cinder service-list --host CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND
      # cinder service-disable CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND \
      cinder-volume --reason 'RAM maintenance'

#. List all instances with Block Storage volumes attached:

   .. code-block:: console

      # mariadb cinder -BNe 'select instance_uuid from volumes where deleted=0 '\
      'and host like "%<cinder host>%"' | tee /home/user/running_instances

#. Shut down the instances:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova stop

#. Verify the instances are shutdown:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova show | fgrep vm_state

#. Shut down the Block Storage host:

   .. code-block:: console

      # shutdown -h now

#. Replace the failed hardware and validate the new hardware is functioning.

#. Enable the ``cinder-volume`` service:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cinder service-enable CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND cinder-volume

#. Verify the services on the host are reconnected to the environment:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cinder service-list --host CINDER SERVICE NAME INCLUDING @BACKEND

#. Start your instances and confirm all of the instances are started:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova start
      # cat /home/user/running_instances | xargs -n1 nova show | fgrep vm_state

Destroying Containers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

#. To destroy a container, execute the following:

  .. code-block:: console

     # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.containers_lxc_destroy --limit localhost,<container name|container group>

  .. note::

     You will be asked two questions:

       Are you sure you want to destroy the LXC containers?
       Are you sure you want to destroy the LXC container data?

       The first will just remove the container but leave the data in the bind mounts and logs.
       The second will remove the data in the bind mounts and logs too.

.. warning::
   If you remove the containers and data for the entire galera_server container group you
   will lose all your databases! Also, if you destroy the first container in many host groups
   you will lose other important items like certificates, keys, etc. Be sure that you
   understand what you're doing when using this tool.

#. To create the containers again, execute the following:

   .. code-block:: console

      # cd /opt/openstack-ansible/playbooks
      # openstack-ansible openstack.osa.containers_lxc_create --limit localhost,lxc_hosts,<container name|container
        group>

   The lxc_hosts host group must be included as the playbook and roles executed require the
   use of facts from the hosts.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   scaling-swift
