doc/source/reference/inventory/configure-inventory.rst, before:

.. _configuring-inventory:

Configuring the inventory
=========================

In this chapter, you can find the information on how to configure
the openstack-ansible dynamic inventory to your needs.

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Common OpenStack services and their configuration are defined by
OpenStack-Ansible in the
``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml`` settings file.

Additional services should be defined with a YAML file in
``/etc/openstack_deploy/conf.d``, in order to manage file size.

The ``/etc/openstack_deploy/env.d`` directory sources all YAML files into the
deployed environment, allowing a deployer to define additional group mappings.
This directory is used to extend the environment skeleton, or modify the
defaults defined in the ``inventory/env.d`` directory.

To understand how the dynamic inventory works, see
:ref:`inventory-in-depth`.

.. warning::

   Never edit or delete the files
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_inventory.json`` or
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_hostnames_ips.yml``. This can
   lead to file corruptions, and problems with the inventory: hosts
   and container could disappear and new ones would appear,
   breaking your existing deployment.


Configuration constraints
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Group memberships
-----------------

When adding groups, keep the following in mind:

* A group can contain hosts
* A group can contain child groups

However, groups cannot contain child groups and hosts.

The lxc_hosts Group
-------------------

When the dynamic inventory script creates a container name, the host on
which the container resides is added to the ``lxc_hosts`` inventory group.

Using this name for a group in the configuration will result in a runtime
error.

Deploying directly on hosts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To deploy a component directly on the host instead of within a container, set
the ``is_metal`` property to ``true`` for the container group in the
``container_skel`` section in the appropriate file.

The use of ``container_vars`` and mapping from container groups to host groups
is the same for a service deployed directly onto the host.

You can also use the ``no_containers`` option to specify a host that will have
all services deployed on metal inside of it.

.. note::

   The ``cinder-volume`` component is deployed directly on the host by
   default. See the ``env.d/cinder.yml`` file for this example.

Example: Running all controllers on metal
-----------------------------------------
For example, if you'd like to run all your controllers on metal, you would
have the following inside your ``openstack_user_config.yml``.

   .. code-block:: yaml

     infra_hosts:
       infra1:
         ip: 172.39.123.11
         no_containers: true
       infra2:
         ip: 172.39.123.12
         no_containers: true
       infra3:
         ip: 172.39.123.13
         no_containers: true

Example: Running galera on dedicated hosts
------------------------------------------

For example, to run Galera directly on dedicated hosts, you would perform the
following steps:

#. Modify the ``container_skel`` section of the ``env.d/galera.yml`` file.
   For example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

     container_skel:
       galera_container:
         belongs_to:
           - db_containers
         contains:
           - galera
         properties:
           is_metal: true

   .. note::

      To deploy within containers on these dedicated hosts, omit the
      ``is_metal: true`` property.

#. Assign the ``db_containers`` container group (from the preceding step) to a
   host group by providing a ``physical_skel`` section for the host group
   in a new or existing file, such as ``env.d/galera.yml``.
   For example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

     physical_skel:
       db_containers:
         belongs_to:
           - all_containers
       db_hosts:
         belongs_to:
           - hosts

#. Define the host group (``db_hosts``) in a ``conf.d/`` file (such as
   ``galera.yml``). For example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

     db_hosts:
       db-host1:
         ip: 172.39.123.11
       db-host2:
         ip: 172.39.123.12
       db-host3:
         ip: 172.39.123.13

   .. note::

      Each of the custom group names in this example (``db_containers``
      and ``db_hosts``) are arbitrary. Choose your own group names,
      but ensure the references are consistent among all relevant files.

.. _affinity:

Deploying 0 (or more than one) of component type per host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When OpenStack-Ansible generates its dynamic inventory, the affinity
setting determines how many containers of a similar type are deployed on a
single physical host.

Using ``shared-infra_hosts`` as an example, consider this
``openstack_user_config.yml`` configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    shared-infra_hosts:
      infra1:
        ip: 172.29.236.101
      infra2:
        ip: 172.29.236.102
      infra3:
        ip: 172.29.236.103

Three hosts are assigned to the `shared-infra_hosts` group,
OpenStack-Ansible ensures that each host runs a single database container,
a single Memcached container, and a single RabbitMQ container. Each host has
an affinity of 1 by default,  which means that each host runs one of each
container type.

If you are deploying a stand-alone Object Storage (swift) environment,
you can skip the deployment of RabbitMQ. If you use this configuration,
your ``openstack_user_config.yml`` file would look as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

    shared-infra_hosts:
      infra1:
        affinity:
          rabbit_mq_container: 0
        ip: 172.29.236.101
      infra2:
        affinity:
          rabbit_mq_container: 0
        ip: 172.29.236.102
      infra3:
        affinity:
          rabbit_mq_container: 0
        ip: 172.29.236.103

This configuration deploys a Memcached container and a database container
on each host, but no RabbitMQ containers.

Omit a service or component from the deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To omit a component from a deployment, you can use one of several options:

- Remove the ``physical_skel`` link between the container group and
  the host group by deleting the related file located in the ``env.d/``
  directory.
- Do not run the playbook that installs the component.
  Unless you specify the component to run directly on a host by using the
  ``is_metal`` property, a container is created for this component.
- Adjust the :ref:`affinity`
  to 0 for the host group. Similar to the second option listed here, Unless
  you specify the component to run directly on a host by using the ``is_metal``
  property, a container is created for this component.

Deploying using a different container technology
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. note::

   While nspawn is an available containerization technology it should be
   considered experemental at this time. Even though this subsystem is not yet
   recommended for production, it is stable enough to introduce to the community
   and something we'd like feedback on as we improve it over the next cycle.

OpenStack-Ansible presently supports two different container technologies, LXC
and nspawn. These two container technologies can be used separately or together
within the same cluster but has a limitation of only one setting per host.

Using ``shared-infra_hosts`` as an example, consider this
``openstack_user_config.yml`` configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    shared-infra_hosts:
      infra1:
        ip: 172.29.236.101
        container_vars:
          container_tech: lxc
      infra2:
        ip: 172.29.236.102
        container_vars:
          container_tech: nspawn
      infra3:
        ip: 172.29.236.103

In this example the three hosts are assigned to the `shared-infra_hosts` group,
and will deploy containerized workloads using ``lxc`` on **infra1**, ``nspawn``
on **infra2**, and ``lxc`` on **infra3**. Notice **infra3** does not define the
``container_tech`` option because it not required. If this option is undefined
the value will automatically be set to ``lxc`` within the generated inventory.
The two supported options for the ``container_tech`` configuration variable are
``lxc`` or ``nspawn``.

Commit message:

Move nspawn to unmaintained state
Update docs so that they mention about nspawn removal. Also drop nspawn
from example configurations as much as we can.

Change-Id: I45dc64ef785cc4a61d09af5ca9e5181dff066400

doc/source/reference/inventory/configure-inventory.rst, after:

.. _configuring-inventory:

Configuring the inventory
=========================

In this chapter, you can find the information on how to configure
the openstack-ansible dynamic inventory to your needs.

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Common OpenStack services and their configuration are defined by
OpenStack-Ansible in the
``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_user_config.yml`` settings file.

Additional services should be defined with a YAML file in
``/etc/openstack_deploy/conf.d``, in order to manage file size.

The ``/etc/openstack_deploy/env.d`` directory sources all YAML files into the
deployed environment, allowing a deployer to define additional group mappings.
This directory is used to extend the environment skeleton, or modify the
defaults defined in the ``inventory/env.d`` directory.

To understand how the dynamic inventory works, see
:ref:`inventory-in-depth`.

.. warning::

   Never edit or delete the files
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_inventory.json`` or
   ``/etc/openstack_deploy/openstack_hostnames_ips.yml``. This can
   lead to file corruptions, and problems with the inventory: hosts
   and container could disappear and new ones would appear,
   breaking your existing deployment.


Configuration constraints
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Group memberships
-----------------

When adding groups, keep the following in mind:

* A group can contain hosts
* A group can contain child groups

However, groups cannot contain child groups and hosts.

The lxc_hosts Group
-------------------

When the dynamic inventory script creates a container name, the host on
which the container resides is added to the ``lxc_hosts`` inventory group.

Using this name for a group in the configuration will result in a runtime
error.

Deploying directly on hosts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To deploy a component directly on the host instead of within a container, set
the ``is_metal`` property to ``true`` for the container group in the
``container_skel`` section in the appropriate file.

The use of ``container_vars`` and mapping from container groups to host groups
is the same for a service deployed directly onto the host.

You can also use the ``no_containers`` option to specify a host that will have
all services deployed on metal inside of it.

.. note::

   The ``cinder-volume`` component is deployed directly on the host by
   default. See the ``env.d/cinder.yml`` file for this example.

Example: Running all controllers on metal
-----------------------------------------
For example, if you'd like to run all your controllers on metal, you would
have the following inside your ``openstack_user_config.yml``.

   .. code-block:: yaml

     infra_hosts:
       infra1:
         ip: 172.39.123.11
         no_containers: true
       infra2:
         ip: 172.39.123.12
         no_containers: true
       infra3:
         ip: 172.39.123.13
         no_containers: true

Example: Running galera on dedicated hosts
------------------------------------------

For example, to run Galera directly on dedicated hosts, you would perform the
following steps:

#. Modify the ``container_skel`` section of the ``env.d/galera.yml`` file.
   For example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

     container_skel:
       galera_container:
         belongs_to:
           - db_containers
         contains:
           - galera
         properties:
           is_metal: true

   .. note::

      To deploy within containers on these dedicated hosts, omit the
      ``is_metal: true`` property.

#. Assign the ``db_containers`` container group (from the preceding step) to a
   host group by providing a ``physical_skel`` section for the host group
   in a new or existing file, such as ``env.d/galera.yml``.
   For example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

     physical_skel:
       db_containers:
         belongs_to:
           - all_containers
       db_hosts:
         belongs_to:
           - hosts

#. Define the host group (``db_hosts``) in a ``conf.d/`` file (such as
   ``galera.yml``). For example:

   .. code-block:: yaml

     db_hosts:
       db-host1:
         ip: 172.39.123.11
       db-host2:
         ip: 172.39.123.12
       db-host3:
         ip: 172.39.123.13

   .. note::

      Each of the custom group names in this example (``db_containers``
      and ``db_hosts``) are arbitrary. Choose your own group names,
      but ensure the references are consistent among all relevant files.

.. _affinity:

Deploying 0 (or more than one) of component type per host
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When OpenStack-Ansible generates its dynamic inventory, the affinity
setting determines how many containers of a similar type are deployed on a
single physical host.

Using ``shared-infra_hosts`` as an example, consider this
``openstack_user_config.yml`` configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    shared-infra_hosts:
      infra1:
        ip: 172.29.236.101
      infra2:
        ip: 172.29.236.102
      infra3:
        ip: 172.29.236.103

Three hosts are assigned to the `shared-infra_hosts` group,
OpenStack-Ansible ensures that each host runs a single database container,
a single Memcached container, and a single RabbitMQ container. Each host has
an affinity of 1 by default,  which means that each host runs one of each
container type.

If you are deploying a stand-alone Object Storage (swift) environment,
you can skip the deployment of RabbitMQ. If you use this configuration,
your ``openstack_user_config.yml`` file would look as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

    shared-infra_hosts:
      infra1:
        affinity:
          rabbit_mq_container: 0
        ip: 172.29.236.101
      infra2:
        affinity:
          rabbit_mq_container: 0
        ip: 172.29.236.102
      infra3:
        affinity:
          rabbit_mq_container: 0
        ip: 172.29.236.103

This configuration deploys a Memcached container and a database container
on each host, but no RabbitMQ containers.

Omit a service or component from the deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To omit a component from a deployment, you can use one of several options:

- Remove the ``physical_skel`` link between the container group and
  the host group by deleting the related file located in the ``env.d/``
  directory.
- Do not run the playbook that installs the component.
  Unless you specify the component to run directly on a host by using the
  ``is_metal`` property, a container is created for this component.
- Adjust the :ref:`affinity`
  to 0 for the host group. Similar to the second option listed here, Unless
  you specify the component to run directly on a host by using the ``is_metal``
  property, a container is created for this component.

Deploying using a different container technology
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::

   While nspawn is an available containerization technology it should be
   considered unmaintained and it's support will be removed in the upcoming
   release.

OpenStack-Ansible presently supports two different container technologies, LXC
and nspawn. These two container technologies can be used separately or together
within the same cluster but has a limitation of only one setting per host.

Using ``shared-infra_hosts`` as an example, consider this
``openstack_user_config.yml`` configuration:

.. code-block:: yaml

    shared-infra_hosts:
      infra1:
        ip: 172.29.236.101
        container_vars:
          container_tech: lxc
      infra2:
        ip: 172.29.236.102
        container_vars:
          container_tech: nspawn
      infra3:
        ip: 172.29.236.103

In this example the three hosts are assigned to the `shared-infra_hosts` group,
and will deploy containerized workloads using ``lxc`` on **infra1**, ``nspawn``
on **infra2**, and ``lxc`` on **infra3**. Notice **infra3** does not define the
``container_tech`` option because it not required. If this option is undefined
the value will automatically be set to ``lxc`` within the generated inventory.
The two supported options for the ``container_tech`` configuration variable are
``lxc`` or ``nspawn``.
